[IMP] iot: flash card update section (#7733)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/productivity/iot/config/updating_iot.rst

IoT Boxes` and clicking on the :guilabel:`IP address` of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box.
Then click on :guilabel:`Update` (next to the version number).

If a new version of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box image is available, an
:guilabel:`Upgrade to _xx.xx_` button will appear at the bottom of the page. Click this button to
upgrade the unit and the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box will then flash itself to the new
version. All of the previous configurations will be saved.

.. note::
   This process can take more than 30 minutes. Do not turn off or unplug the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of
   Things)` box as it would leave it in an inconsistent state. This means that the :abbr:`IoT
   (Internet of Things)` box will need to be re-flashed with a new image. See
   :ref:`flash_sdcard/etcher`.

.. image:: flash_sdcard/flash-upgrade.png
   :align: center
   :alt: IoT box software upgrade in the IoT Box Home Page.

.. _flash_sdcard/etcher:

Flashing the SD card
====================

In some circumstances, the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box's micro SD Card may need to be

> re-flashed with Etcher software to benefit from Odoo's latest :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` image

Author: This has been in the documentation since before I started. It is proven and our recommended solution, I give the Raspberry Pi option at the bottom.

update. This means that the Odoo :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box software may need to be
updated in instances of a new :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box, or when a handlers update and
update from the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box home page doesn't fix issues.

.. note::
   A computer with a micro SD card reader/adapter is required in order to re-flash the micro SD
   card.

Navigate to Balena's website and download `Etcher <https://www.balena.io/>`_. It's a free and
open-source utility used for burning image files onto drives. Click to `download
<https://www.balena.io/etcher#download-etcher>`_. Install and launch the program on the computer.

Then download the version-specific :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` image from `nightly
<http://nightly.odoo.com/master/iotbox/>`_.

The following are image versions on the `nightly <http://nightly.odoo.com/master/iotbox/>`_ website
with their corresponding Odoo database version:

- Odoo Master --> iotbox-latest.zip
- Odoo V17 --> iotboxv23_11.zip
- Odoo V16 --> iotboxv23_09.zip
- Odoo V15 --> iotboxv21_10.zip
- Odoo V14 --> iotboxv21_04.zip

> - Odoo V13 --> iotboxv20_10.zip

Author: See this task: https://www.odoo.com/web#model=project.task&id=3746676&active_id=3746676&cids=3

The images should be downloaded and extracted to a convenient file location.

After this step is complete, insert the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box's micro SD card into
the computer or reader. Open *Etcher* and select :guilabel:`Flash from file`, then find and select
the image just downloaded and extracted. Next, select the drive the image should be burned to.

> Lastly, click on :guilabel:`Flash` and wait for the process to finish.

Reviewer: I don't know if it is really relevant to download the file, Etcher propose to flash from an URL:
![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/60775325/22f5497d-aa12-4c9e-91d7-50efcbea66b8)

maybe it would be simpler for Odoo customers to use this method instead ?

(Internet of Things)` box, this process can be performed manually from the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of
Things)` box homepage. Go to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage by navigating to
:menuselection:`IoT app --> IoT Boxes` and clicking on the :guilabel:`IP address` of the :abbr:`IoT
(Internet of Things)` box.

Next, click :guilabel:`Handlers list` and then select :guilabel:`Load Handlers` at the bottom of the
page.

.. image:: updating_iot/load-handlers.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Handlers list on an IoT box with the load handlers button highlighted.

.. seealso::
   Handlers code is fetched from the configured server and it needs to be up-to-date to have the
   latest fixes and patches.

.. note::
   The handlers update is also performed automatically each time the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of
   Things)` box is restarted. The only exception to this process is if the :guilabel:`Automatic
   drivers update` is unchecked in the form view of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box on the
   Odoo server. This setting can be reached by going to :menuselection:`IoT App --> Select the IoT
   box --> Automatic drivers update`.

> Upgrade from the IoT box home page

Reviewer: I don't like the term "upgrade" in this context as Odoo already use this term when Odoo's version is increased. Here we don't change Odoo's version code on the IoT, so I think it would be better to have a name like "update core" or "code update". If you have other ideas or suggestions don't hesitate to let me know :)

If a new version of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box image is available, an
:guilabel:`Upgrade to _xx.xx_` button will appear at the bottom of the page. Click this button to
upgrade the unit and the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box will then flash itself to the new
version. All of the previous configurations will be saved.

.. note::
   This process can take more than 30 minutes. Do not turn off or unplug the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of
   Things)` box as it would leave it in an inconsistent state. This means that the :abbr:`IoT
   (Internet of Things)` box will need to be re-flashed with a new image.

   .. seealso::
      :ref:`flash_sdcard/etcher`.

.. important::
   An :guilabel:`Upgrade` button will appear if the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box is on the
   latest image. In this case, the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box will instead update the core
   code (without changing the image itself. In other words this button forces Odoo based :abbr:`IoT
   (Internet of Things)` box code to update with the latest version from GitHub. This can be done
   **without** an Odoo database to synchronize with.

.. image:: updating_iot/flash-upgrade.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: IoT box software upgrade in the IoT Box Home Page.

Reviewer: the content is correct but I find it complicated to follow personally. Maybe try to rethink this part to make it more clear. 
Maybe by precising that the Upgrade button will show only if they are on the latest image and that they need to reflash the card on the latest image first if they want to perform this update

Navigate to Balena's website and download `Etcher <https://www.balena.io/>`_. It is a free and
open source utility used for burning image files onto drives. Click to `download
<https://www.balena.io/etcher#download-etcher>`_. Install and launch the program on the computer.

Then download the latest IoT image from `nightly <http://nightly.odoo.com/master/iotbox/>`_ :
`iotbox-latest.zip`

This image is compatible with all supported versions of Odoo.

The images should be downloaded and extracted to a convenient file location.

After this step is complete, insert the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box's micro SD card into
the computer or reader. Open *Etcher* and select :guilabel:`Flash from file`, then find and select
the image just downloaded and extracted. Next, select the drive the image should be burned to.
Lastly, click on :guilabel:`Flash` and wait for the process to finish.

.. image:: updating_iot/etcher-app.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Balena's Etcher software dashboard.

.. tip::
   Balena's Etcher software also allows for the administrator to flash the :abbr:`SD (Secure
   Digital)` SD card from an :abbr:`URL (Uniform Resource Locator)`. To flash from an :abbr:`URL

>    (Uniform Resource Locator)`, simply click :guilabel:`Flash from URL` in stead of :guilabel:`Flash

Reviewer: "in stead" in two words ? Is it not "instead" ? :thinking:

   from file`. The option to authenticate with a secure server using a :guilabel:`username` and

>    :guilabel:`password` is available.

Reviewer: we don't use "username" and "password" so maybe precise that it should be left empty.

Also maybe precise the URL of the latest image as it will always be the same:
https://nightly.odoo.com/master/iotbox/iotbox-latest.zip

   A computer with a micro SD card reader/adapter is required to re-flash the micro SD card.

Navigate to Balena's website and download `Etcher <https://www.balena.io/>`_. It is a free and
open source utility used for burning image files onto drives. Click to `download
<https://www.balena.io/etcher#download-etcher>`_. Install and launch the program on the computer.

Then download the latest IoT image from `nightly <http://nightly.odoo.com/master/iotbox/>`_ :
`iotbox-latest.zip`

This image is compatible with all supported versions of Odoo.

The images should be downloaded and extracted to a convenient file location.

After this step is complete, insert the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box's micro SD card into
the computer or reader. Open *Etcher* and select :guilabel:`Flash from file`, then find and select
the image just downloaded and extracted. Next, select the drive the image should be burned to.
Lastly, click on :guilabel:`Flash` and wait for the process to finish.

.. image:: updating_iot/etcher-app.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Balena's Etcher software dashboard.

.. tip::
   Balena's Etcher software also allows for the administrator to flash the :abbr:`SD (Secure

>    Digital)` card from an :abbr:`URL (Uniform Resource Locator)`. To flash from an :abbr:`URL
>    (Uniform Resource Locator)`, simply click :guilabel:`Flash from URL` instead of :guilabel:`Flash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Digital)` card from a :abbr:`URL (Uniform Resource Locator)`. To flash from a :abbr:`URL
   (Uniform Resource Locator)`, simply click :guilabel:`Flash from URL` instead of :guilabel:`Flash
```

   from file`. Then enter the following: `http://nightly.odoo.com/master/iotbox/iotbox-latest.zip`.

   .. image:: updating_iot/url-flash.png
      :align: center
      :alt:  A view of Balena's Etcher software, with the flash from URL option highlighted.

.. note::
   An alternative software for flashing the micro SD card is *Raspberry Pi Imager*. Download the
   *Raspberry Pi* software `here <https://www.raspberrypi.com/software/>`_.

Update from the IoT box home page
=================================

In the background, the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box uses a version of Odoo code to run and
connect to the Odoo database. This code may need to be updated in order for the :abbr:`IoT (Internet
of Things)` box to operate effectively. This operation should be completed on a routine basis, to

> ensure up-to-date :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` processes and core system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ensure the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` system and its processes stay up-to-date.
```

Go to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage by navigating to :menuselection:`IoT app -->
IoT Boxes` and clicking on the :guilabel:`IP address` of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box.
Then click on :guilabel:`Update` (next to the version number).

> If a new version of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box image is available, an

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a new version of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box image is available, an
```

:guilabel:`Upgrade to _xx.xx_` button will appear at the bottom of the page. Click this button to

> upgrade the unit and the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box will then flash itself to the newer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
upgrade the unit, at which point the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box will flash itself to the newer
```

version. All of the previous configurations will be saved.

.. note::
   This process can take more than 30 minutes. Do not turn off or unplug the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of
   Things)` box as it would leave it in an inconsistent state. This means that the :abbr:`IoT
   (Internet of Things)` box will need to be re-flashed with a new image.

   .. seealso::
      :ref:`flash_sdcard/etcher`.

.. image:: updating_iot/flash-upgrade.png
   :align: center
   :alt: IoT box software upgrade in the IoT Box Home Page.

.. _flash_sdcard/etcher:

Handlers (drivers) update
=========================

> There may be some instances where the drivers or interfaces need to be updated for individual
> devices (e.g. scale, measurement tools, etc.). The IoT handlers (drivers and interfaces) code can be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There may be some instances where drivers or interfaces need to be updated for individual
devices (e.g. scales, measurement tools, etc.). The IoT handlers (drivers and interfaces) code can be
```

modified by syncing them with the configured server handler's code. This can be helpful in instances
where :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` devices (e.g. scales, measurement tools, etc.) are not
working properly with the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box.

For both the Windows :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` (Odoo 16 and higher) and physical :abbr:`IoT
(Internet of Things)` box, this process can be performed manually from the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of
Things)` box homepage. Go to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage by navigating to

> :menuselection:`IoT app --> IoT Boxes` and clicking on the :guilabel:`IP address` of the :abbr:`IoT

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:menuselection:`IoT app --> IoT Boxes`, and clicking on the :guilabel:`IP address` of the :abbr:`IoT
```

(Internet of Things)` box.

> Next, click :guilabel:`Handlers list` and then select :guilabel:`Load Handlers` at the bottom of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, click :guilabel:`Handlers list`, and then select :guilabel:`Load Handlers` at the bottom of the
```

page.

.. image:: updating_iot/load-handlers.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Handlers list on an IoT box with the load handlers button highlighted.

.. important::
   Handlers code is fetched from the configured server and it needs to be up-to-date to have the
   latest fixes and patches.

.. note::

>    The handlers update is also performed automatically each time the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   A handlers update is also performed automatically each time the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of
```

   :align: center
   :alt: Balena's Etcher software dashboard.

.. tip::
   Balena's Etcher software also allows for the administrator to flash the :abbr:`SD (Secure
   Digital)` card from a :abbr:`URL (Uniform Resource Locator)`. To flash from a :abbr:`URL (Uniform
   Resource Locator)`, simply click :guilabel:`Flash from URL` instead of :guilabel:`Flash from
   file`. Then enter the following: `http://nightly.odoo.com/master/iotbox/iotbox-latest.zip`.

   .. image:: updating_iot/url-flash.png
      :align: center
      :alt:  A view of Balena's Etcher software, with the flash from URL option highlighted.

.. note::
   An alternative software for flashing the micro SD card is *Raspberry Pi Imager*. Download the
   *Raspberry Pi* software `here <https://www.raspberrypi.com/software/>`_.

Update from the IoT box home page
=================================

In the background, the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box uses a version of Odoo code to run and
connect to the Odoo database. This code may need to be updated in order for the :abbr:`IoT (Internet
of Things)` box to operate effectively. This operation should be completed on a routine basis, to

> ensure the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` system and its processes stay up-to-date.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ensure the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` system, and its processes, stay up-to-date.
```

Reviewer 3: I still agree with this suggestion.

Go to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage by navigating to :menuselection:`IoT app -->

> IoT Boxes` and clicking on the :guilabel:`IP address` of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
IoT Boxes`, and clicking on the :guilabel:`IP address` of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box.
```

> Then click on :guilabel:`Update` (next to the version number).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Then, click on :guilabel:`Update` (next to the version number).
```

If a new version of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box image is available, an

> :guilabel:`Upgrade to _xx.xx_` button will appear at the bottom of the page. Click this button to
> upgrade the unit, at which point the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box will flash itself to the
> newer version. All of the previous configurations will be saved.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Upgrade to _xx.xx_` button appears at the bottom of the page. Click this button to
upgrade the unit, at which point the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box flashes itself to the
newer version. All of the previous configurations are then saved.
```

.. note::

>    This process can take more than 30 minutes. Do not turn off or unplug the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of
>    Things)` box as it would leave it in an inconsistent state. This means that the :abbr:`IoT
>    (Internet of Things)` box will need to be re-flashed with a new image.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   This process can take more than 30 minutes. Do **not** turn off, or unplug, the :abbr:`IoT
   (Internet of Things)` box, as it would leave it in an inconsistent state. This means the
   :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box needs to be re-flashed with a new image.
```

   .. seealso::
      :ref:`flash_sdcard/etcher`.

.. image:: updating_iot/flash-upgrade.png
   :align: center
   :alt: IoT box software upgrade in the IoT Box Home Page.

.. _flash_sdcard/etcher:

> Handlers (drivers) update

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Handlers (drivers) update
```
Quick Question: I'm not very experienced with IoT boxes, and I'm curious if the term 'Handlers Code' should be possessive or not. In other words, should it be 'Handler's Code' or 'Handlers Code' -- whichever one it's *supposed* to be, be sure to implement the same version of it throughout the doc for consistency.

Author: Let's go with Handler's Code. I've updated this.

=========================

There may be some instances where drivers or interfaces need to be updated for individual devices
(e.g. scales, measurement tools, etc.). The IoT handlers (drivers and interfaces) code can be

> modified by syncing them with the configured server handler's code. This can be helpful in instances
> where :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` devices (e.g. scales, measurement tools, etc.) are not
> working properly with the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
modified by syncing them with the configured server handler's code.

This can be helpful in instances where :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` devices (e.g. scales,
measurement tools, etc.) are not working properly with the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box.
```

For both the Windows :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` (Odoo 16 and higher) and physical :abbr:`IoT
(Internet of Things)` box, this process can be performed manually from the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of
Things)` box homepage. Go to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage by navigating to
:menuselection:`IoT app --> IoT Boxes`, and clicking on the :guilabel:`IP address` of the :abbr:`IoT
(Internet of Things)` box.

Next, click :guilabel:`Handlers list`, and then select :guilabel:`Load Handlers` at the bottom of
the page.

.. image:: updating_iot/load-handlers.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Handlers list on an IoT box with the load handlers button highlighted.

.. important::

>    Handlers code is fetched from the configured server and it needs to be up-to-date to have the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Handlers code is fetched from the configured server, and it needs to be up-to-date to have the
```

==============
Updating (IoT)
==============

Due to the complexity of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box, and virtual Windows :abbr:`IoT
(Internet of Things)` box, the term 'updating' can mean several different things.

The actual drivers can be updated, the core code on the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box can be

> updated, and a new image can be flashed (physical :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
updated, or a new image can be flashed (using a physical :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box).
```

This document explores the various ways to update :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` boxes to ensure
smooth operation of :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box processes and devices.

.. _iot/config/flash:

Flashing the SD card on IoT box
===============================

.. important::
   This update does **not** apply to the Windows :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box (Odoo 16 and
   higher).

   To update the Windows :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)`, first, uninstall the previous version of
   the Odoo Windows program, and then reinstall it using the most up-to-date installation package.

   To begin the installation, navigate to the Odoo 16 (or higher) installation package for
   Enterprise or Community - Windows edition, at `Odoo's download page
   <https://odoo.com/download>`_.

In some circumstances, the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box's micro SD Card may need to be
re-flashed with *Etcher* software to benefit from Odoo's latest :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)`
image update. This means the Odoo :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box software may need to be

> updated in instances of a new :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box, or when a handler's update or

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
updated in instances of a new :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box, or when a handler's update, or
```

> an update from the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box home page, do not resolve issues.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
an update from the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box home page, does not resolve issues.
```

.. tip::
   Balena's *Etcher* software also allows for the administrator to flash the :abbr:`SD (Secure
   Digital)` card from a :abbr:`URL (Uniform Resource Locator)`. To flash from a :abbr:`URL (Uniform
   Resource Locator)`, simply click :guilabel:`Flash from URL`, instead of :guilabel:`Flash from
   file`.

   Then, enter the following: `http://nightly.odoo.com/master/iotbox/iotbox-latest.zip`.

   .. image:: updating_iot/url-flash.png
      :align: center
      :alt:  A view of Balena's Etcher software, with the flash from URL option highlighted.

.. note::
   An alternative software for flashing the micro SD card is `Raspberry Pi Imager
   <https://www.raspberrypi.com/software/>`_.

.. _iot/config/homepage-upgrade:

Update from the IoT box home page
=================================

In the background, the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box uses a version of Odoo code to run and
connect to the Odoo database. This code may need to be updated in order for the :abbr:`IoT (Internet
of Things)` box to operate effectively. This operation should be completed on a routine basis, to
ensure the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` system, and its processes, stay up-to-date.

> Go to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage by navigating to :menuselection:`IoT app -->

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Go to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box home page by navigating to :menuselection:`IoT app -->
```
you've used "home page" as two words multiple times up to this point, so I figured it'd be best to keep things uniform

.. important::
   This process can take more than 30 minutes. Do **not** turn off, or unplug, the :abbr:`IoT
   (Internet of Things)` box, as it would leave it in an inconsistent state. This means the
   :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box needs to be :ref:`re-flashed <iot/config/flash>` with a new
   image.

.. image:: updating_iot/flash-upgrade.png
   :align: center
   :alt: IoT box software upgrade in the IoT Box Home Page.

Handler (driver) update
=======================

There may be some instances where drivers or interfaces need to be updated for individual devices
(e.g. scales, measurement tools, etc.). The IoT handler's (drivers and interfaces) code can be
modified by syncing them with the configured server handler's code.

This can be helpful in instances where :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` devices (e.g. scales,
measurement tools, etc.) are not working properly with the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box.

For both the Windows :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` (Odoo 16 and higher) and physical :abbr:`IoT
(Internet of Things)` box, this process can be performed manually from the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of

> Things)` box homepage. Go to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage by navigating to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Things)` box home page. Go to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage by navigating to
```

particular image is compatible with *all* supported versions of Odoo.

After this step is complete, insert the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box's micro SD card into
the computer or reader. Open *Etcher*, and select :guilabel:`Flash from file`, then find and select
the `iotbox-latest.zip` image and extract it. Next, select the drive the image should be burned to.

Lastly, click :guilabel:`Flash`, and wait for the process to finish.

.. image:: updating_iot/etcher-app.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Balena's Etcher software dashboard.

.. tip::
   Balena's *Etcher* software also allows for the administrator to flash the :abbr:`SD (Secure
   Digital)` card from a :abbr:`URL (Uniform Resource Locator)`. To flash from a :abbr:`URL (Uniform
   Resource Locator)`, simply click :guilabel:`Flash from URL`, instead of :guilabel:`Flash from
   file`.

   Then, enter the following: `http://nightly.odoo.com/master/iotbox/iotbox-latest.zip`.

   .. image:: updating_iot/url-flash.png
      :align: center
      :alt:  A view of Balena's Etcher software, with the flash from URL option highlighted.

.. note::

>    An alternative software for flashing the micro SD card is *Raspberry Pi Imager*. Download the
>    *Raspberry Pi* software `here <https://www.raspberrypi.com/software/>`_.

Reviewer 4: Simplify the external link placement :)
```suggestion
   An alternative software for flashing the micro SD card is `Raspberry Pi Imager
   <https://www.raspberrypi.com/software/>`_.
```

.. _iot/config/homepage-upgrade:

Update from the IoT box home page
=================================

In the background, the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box uses a version of Odoo code to run and
connect to the Odoo database. This code may need to be updated in order for the :abbr:`IoT (Internet
of Things)` box to operate effectively. This operation should be completed on a routine basis, to
ensure the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` system, and its processes, stay up-to-date.

Go to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage by navigating to :menuselection:`IoT app -->
IoT Boxes`, and clicking on the :guilabel:`IP address` of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box.
Then, click on :guilabel:`Update` (next to the version number).

If a new version of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box image is available, an
:guilabel:`Upgrade to _xx.xx_` button appears at the bottom of the page. Click this button to
upgrade the unit, at which point the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box flashes itself to the
newer version. All of the previous configurations are then saved.

> .. note::
>    This process can take more than 30 minutes. Do **not** turn off, or unplug, the :abbr:`IoT
>    (Internet of Things)` box, as it would leave it in an inconsistent state. This means the
>    :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box needs to be :ref:`re-flashed <iot/config/flash>` with a new
>    image.
> 
>    .. seealso::
>       :ref:`iot/config/flash`.

Reviewer 4: Suggestion to make this an important admonition and can remove the seealso since there is an inline reference used in the last sentence to the same location
```suggestion
.. important::
   This process can take more than 30 minutes. Do **not** turn off, or unplug, the :abbr:`IoT
   (Internet of Things)` box, as it would leave it in an inconsistent state. This means the
   :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box needs to be :ref:`re-flashed <iot/config/flash>` with a new
   image.
```

modified by syncing them with the configured server handler's code.

This can be helpful in instances where :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` devices (e.g. scales,
measurement tools, etc.) are not working properly with the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box.

For both the Windows :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` (Odoo 16 and higher) and physical :abbr:`IoT
(Internet of Things)` box, this process can be performed manually from the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of
Things)` box homepage. Go to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage by navigating to
:menuselection:`IoT app --> IoT Boxes`, and clicking on the :guilabel:`IP address` of the :abbr:`IoT
(Internet of Things)` box.

Next, click :guilabel:`Handlers list`, and then select :guilabel:`Load Handlers` at the bottom of
the page.

.. image:: updating_iot/load-handlers.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Handlers list on an IoT box with the load handlers button highlighted.

.. important::
   Handler's code is fetched from the configured server, and it needs to be up-to-date to have the
   latest fixes and patches.

.. note::
   A handler update is also performed automatically each time the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)`

>    box is restarted. The only exception to this process is if the :guilabel:`Automatic drivers
>    update` is unchecked in the form view of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box on the Odoo
>    server. This setting can be reached by going to :menuselection:`IoT App --> Select the IoT box
>    --> Automatic drivers update`.

Reviewer 4: This guilabel should be italics since the active instruction to navigate to the page where this field is present on the UI comes after you state the field name
```suggestion
   box is restarted. The only exception to this process is if the *Automatic drivers update* is
   unchecked in the form view of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box on the Odoo server. This
   setting can be reached by going to :menuselection:`IoT App --> Select the IoT box --> Automatic
   drivers update`.
```

   higher).

   To update the Windows :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)`, first, uninstall the previous version of
   the Odoo Windows program, and then reinstall it using the most up-to-date installation package.

   To begin the installation, navigate to the Odoo 16 (or higher) installation package for
   Enterprise or Community - Windows edition, at `Odoo's download page
   <https://odoo.com/download>`_.

In some circumstances, the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box's micro SD Card may need to be
re-flashed with *Etcher* software to benefit from Odoo's latest :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)`
image update.

This means the Odoo :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box software may need to be updated in
instances of a new :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box, or when a handler's update, and an update
from the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box home page, does not fix issues.

.. warning::
   It is often imperative to re-flash the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box's image after
   upgrading the Odoo database to a new version.

.. note::
   A computer with a micro SD card reader/adapter is **required** to re-flash the micro SD card.

> Navigate to Balena's website, and download `Etcher <https://www.balena.io/>`_. It is a free,
> open-source utility, used for burning image files onto drives.
> 
> Click to `download <https://www.balena.io/etcher#download-etcher>`_. Install and launch the program
> on the computer.

Reviewer 5: Indicate that we're getting into the steps now with transitional language, since the first few blocks of text prior to this followed a non-linear order and were mostly theoretical.

Suggested rewrite:
```suggestion
First, begin by downloading `Etcher <https://www.balena.io/etcher#download-etcher`_. It is a free,
open-source utility, used for burning image files onto drives. After the download completes, install
and launch the program on the computer.
```

> Then, download the latest IoT image from `nightly <http://nightly.odoo.com/master/iotbox/>`_ :
> `iotbox-latest.zip`
> 
> This image is compatible with all supported versions of Odoo.
> 
> The images should be downloaded and extracted to a convenient file location.

Reviewer 5: Condense into one paragraph, remove unnecessary words/sentence, add missing **:abbr:** tag
```suggestion
Then, download the latest :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things) image from `nightly
<http://nightly.odoo.com/master/iotbox/>`_, which will be labeled as `iotbox-latest.zip`. This
particular image is compatible with *all* supported versions of Odoo.
```

After this step is complete, insert the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box's micro SD card into

> the computer or reader. Open *Etcher*, and select :guilabel:`Flash from file`, then find and select

Reviewer 5: is **Flash from file** found inside a menu, or is it a button?

Author: @StraubCreative 

It is a button.
![2024-03-08_17-09](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/91896312/2691f1ee-a1ad-4da4-8334-840d9ac9c040)

> the image just downloaded and extracted. Next, select the drive the image should be burned to.

Reviewer 5: specificity and grammar
```suggestion
the `iotbox-latest.zip` image and extract it. Next, select the drive the image should be burned to.
```

For this line: 
"Next, select the drive the image should be burned to."
...how is that done? What do you click on the UI to do that?

==============
Updating (IoT)
==============

Due to the complexity of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box, and virtual Windows :abbr:`IoT
(Internet of Things)` box, the term 'updating' can mean several different things.

The actual drivers can be updated, the core code on the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box can be
updated, and a new image can be flashed (physical :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box).

This document explores the various ways to update :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` boxes to ensure
smooth operation of :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box processes and devices.

> 

Reviewer 4: Update anchor location and naming convention.
```suggestion

.. _iot/config/flash:
```

Flashing the SD card on IoT box
===============================

.. important::
   This update does **not** apply to the Windows :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box (Odoo 16 and
   higher).

   To update the Windows :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)`, first, uninstall the previous version of
   the Odoo Windows program, and then reinstall it using the most up-to-date installation package.

>    To begin the installation, navigate to the Odoo 16 or higher installation package for Enterprise

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   To begin the installation, navigate to the Odoo 16 (or higher) installation package for Enterprise
```

>    Enterprise or Community - Windows edition, at `Odoo’s download page

Reviewer 4: Remove curly quote
```suggestion
   Enterprise or Community - Windows edition, at `Odoo's download page
```

In some circumstances, the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box's micro SD Card may need to be

> re-flashed with Etcher software to benefit from Odoo's latest :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` image

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
re-flashed with *Etcher* software to benefit from Odoo's latest :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` image
```

update.

This means the Odoo :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box software may need to be updated in
instances of a new :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box, or when a handler's update, and an update
from the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box home page, does not fix issues.

.. warning::
   It is often imperative to re-flash the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box's image after
   upgrading the Odoo database to a new version.

.. note::
   A computer with a micro SD card reader/adapter is **required** to re-flash the micro SD card.

> 

Reviewer 3: one too many empty lines here

Navigate to Balena's website, and download `Etcher <https://www.balena.io/>`_. It is a free,

> open-source utility used for burning image files onto drives.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
open-source utility, used for burning image files onto drives.
```

the computer or reader. Open *Etcher*, and select :guilabel:`Flash from file`, then find and select
the image just downloaded and extracted. Next, select the drive the image should be burned to.

Lastly, click :guilabel:`Flash`, and wait for the process to finish.

.. image:: updating_iot/etcher-app.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Balena's Etcher software dashboard.

.. tip::
   Balena's *Etcher* software also allows for the administrator to flash the :abbr:`SD (Secure
   Digital)` card from a :abbr:`URL (Uniform Resource Locator)`. To flash from a :abbr:`URL (Uniform
   Resource Locator)`, simply click :guilabel:`Flash from URL`, instead of :guilabel:`Flash from
   file`.

   Then, enter the following: `http://nightly.odoo.com/master/iotbox/iotbox-latest.zip`.

   .. image:: updating_iot/url-flash.png
      :align: center
      :alt:  A view of Balena's Etcher software, with the flash from URL option highlighted.

.. note::
   An alternative software for flashing the micro SD card is *Raspberry Pi Imager*. Download the
   *Raspberry Pi* software `here <https://www.raspberrypi.com/software/>`_.

> 

Reviewer 4: Update anchor location and naming convention
```suggestion
.. _iot/config/homepage-upgrade:

```

Update from the IoT box home page
=================================

In the background, the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box uses a version of Odoo code to run and
connect to the Odoo database. This code may need to be updated in order for the :abbr:`IoT (Internet
of Things)` box to operate effectively. This operation should be completed on a routine basis, to
ensure the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` system, and its processes, stay up-to-date.

Go to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage by navigating to :menuselection:`IoT app -->
IoT Boxes`, and clicking on the :guilabel:`IP address` of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box.
Then, click on :guilabel:`Update` (next to the version number).

If a new version of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box image is available, an
:guilabel:`Upgrade to _xx.xx_` button appears at the bottom of the page. Click this button to
upgrade the unit, at which point the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box flashes itself to the
newer version. All of the previous configurations are then saved.

> .. note::
>    This process can take more than 30 minutes. Do **not** turn off, or unplug, the :abbr:`IoT
>    (Internet of Things)` box, as it would leave it in an inconsistent state. This means the
>    :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box needs to be re-flashed with a new image.
> 
>    .. seealso::
>       :ref:`flash_sdcard/etcher`.

Reviewer 4: The seealso inside of the note admonition looks strange, can just use an inline reference to the section.
```suggestion
.. note::
   This process can take more than 30 minutes. Do **not** turn off, or unplug, the :abbr:`IoT
   (Internet of Things)` box, as it would leave it in an inconsistent state. This means the
   :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box needs to be :ref:`re-flashed <iot/config/flash>` with a new
   image.
```

.. image:: updating_iot/flash-upgrade.png
   :align: center
   :alt: IoT box software upgrade in the IoT Box Home Page.

> .. _flash_sdcard/etcher:

Reviewer 4: This anchor is not above the correct section, I believe it should be placed on line 14 above the _Flashing the SD card on IoT box_ heading
```suggestion
```

(Internet of Things)` box, this process can be performed manually from the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of
Things)` box homepage. Go to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage by navigating to
:menuselection:`IoT app --> IoT Boxes`, and clicking on the :guilabel:`IP address` of the :abbr:`IoT
(Internet of Things)` box.

Next, click :guilabel:`Handlers list`, and then select :guilabel:`Load Handlers` at the bottom of
the page.

.. image:: updating_iot/load-handlers.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Handlers list on an IoT box with the load handlers button highlighted.

.. important::
   Handler's code is fetched from the configured server, and it needs to be up-to-date to have the
   latest fixes and patches.

.. note::
   A handler update is also performed automatically each time the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)`
   box is restarted. The only exception to this process is if the :guilabel:`Automatic drivers
   update` is unchecked in the form view of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box on the Odoo
   server. This setting can be reached by going to :menuselection:`IoT App --> Select the IoT box
   --> Automatic drivers update`.

> .. _upgrade/homepage_upgrade:

Reviewer 4: This anchor is not above the correct section, I believe it should be placed on line 14 above the _Update from the IoT box home page_ heading
```suggestion
```

of Things)` box to operate effectively. This operation should be completed on a routine basis, to
ensure the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` system, and its processes, stay up-to-date.

Go to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage by navigating to :menuselection:`IoT app -->
IoT Boxes`, and clicking on the :guilabel:`IP address` of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box.
Then, click on :guilabel:`Update` (next to the version number).

If a new version of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box image is available, an
:guilabel:`Upgrade to _xx.xx_` button appears at the bottom of the page. Click this button to
upgrade the unit, at which point the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box flashes itself to the
newer version. All of the previous configurations are then saved.

.. note::
   This process can take more than 30 minutes. Do **not** turn off, or unplug, the :abbr:`IoT
   (Internet of Things)` box, as it would leave it in an inconsistent state. This means the
   :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box needs to be :ref:`re-flashed <iot/config/flash>` with a new
   image.

> 
>    .. seealso::
>       :ref:`iot/config/flash`.

Reviewer 4: Can remove this seealso in the admonition if the inline reference is being used :)
```suggestion
```

devices (e.g. scale, measurement tools, etc.). The IoT handlers (drivers and interfaces) code can be
modified by syncing them with the configured server handler's code. This can be helpful in instances
where :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` devices (e.g. scales, measurement tools, etc.) are not
working properly with the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box.

For both the Windows :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` (Odoo 16 and higher) and physical :abbr:`IoT
(Internet of Things)` box, this process can be performed manually from the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of
Things)` box homepage. Go to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage by navigating to
:menuselection:`IoT app --> IoT Boxes` and clicking on the :guilabel:`IP address` of the :abbr:`IoT
(Internet of Things)` box.

Next, click :guilabel:`Handlers list` and then select :guilabel:`Load Handlers` at the bottom of the
page.

.. image:: updating_iot/load-handlers.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Handlers list on an IoT box with the load handlers button highlighted.

.. important::
   Handlers code is fetched from the configured server and it needs to be up-to-date to have the

>    latest fixes and patches. See :ref:`upgrade/homepage_upgrade`.

Reviewer: I don't really understand why you put `See :ref:upgrade/homepage_upgrade.`. They are two separate things which update different part of IoT odoo's code.

.. note::
   The handlers update is also performed automatically each time the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of
   Things)` box is restarted. The only exception to this process is if the :guilabel:`Automatic
   drivers update` is unchecked in the form view of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box on the
   Odoo server. This setting can be reached by going to :menuselection:`IoT App --> Select the IoT
   box --> Automatic drivers update`.

.. _upgrade/homepage_upgrade:

Update from the IoT box home page
=================================

.. important::
   This update does not apply to the Windows :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box (Odoo 16 and
   higher). To update the Windows :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)`, first, uninstall the previous
   version of the Odoo Windows program and then reinstall it, with the most up-to-date installation
   package. To begin the installation, navigate to the Odoo 16 or higher installation package for

>    Enterprise or Community - Windows edition at `Odoo’s download page <https://odoo.com/download>`_.

Reviewer: the idea is interesting, but it forces you to repeat yourself on this section and the following and might change with time.
Maybe it would be better to have a dedicated section Update/"Reflash" Windows Iot with more detailed step on how to uninstall and re-install it ?

Author: Noted, this will be a seperate PR for 16.0 where windows IOT is introduced.

In the background, the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box uses a version of Odoo code to run and
connect to the Odoo database. This code may need to be updated in order for the :abbr:`IoT (Internet
of Things)` box to operate effectively. This operation should be completed on a routine basis, to
ensure up-to-date :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` processes and core system.

Go to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage by navigating to :menuselection:`IoT app -->
IoT Boxes` and clicking on the :guilabel:`IP address` of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box.
Then click on :guilabel:`Update` (next to the version number).

If a new version of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box image is available, an
:guilabel:`Upgrade to _xx.xx_` button will appear at the bottom of the page. Click this button to
upgrade the unit and the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box will then flash itself to the new

> version. All of the previous configurations will be saved.

Reviewer: it's a bit confusing here, note that upgrading the image will also update the core code, but not necessarily to the latest version (but to the version of the code on which the image was built on which is in consequence newer for newer images).
I find a bit confusing to highlight this button in the main section of the page as it is in fact the "Upgrade" button that interest us for this update

Author: I understand that the latest image is the go-to for all versions now, thus a newer version if that file was updated.

   A computer with a micro SD card reader/adapter is required to re-flash the micro SD card.

Navigate to Balena's website and download `Etcher <https://www.balena.io/>`_. It is a free and
open source utility used for burning image files onto drives. Click to `download
<https://www.balena.io/etcher#download-etcher>`_. Install and launch the program on the computer.

Then download the latest IoT image from `nightly <http://nightly.odoo.com/master/iotbox/>`_ :
`iotbox-latest.zip`

This image is compatible with all supported versions of Odoo.

The images should be downloaded and extracted to a convenient file location.

After this step is complete, insert the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box's micro SD card into
the computer or reader. Open *Etcher* and select :guilabel:`Flash from file`, then find and select
the image just downloaded and extracted. Next, select the drive the image should be burned to.
Lastly, click on :guilabel:`Flash` and wait for the process to finish.

.. image:: updating_iot/etcher-app.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Balena's Etcher software dashboard.

.. tip::
   Balena's Etcher software also allows for the administrator to flash the :abbr:`SD (Secure

>    Digital)` SD card from an :abbr:`URL (Uniform Resource Locator)`. To flash from an :abbr:`URL

Reviewer: "SD" is repeated twice

   (Uniform Resource Locator)`, simply click :guilabel:`Flash from URL` instead of :guilabel:`Flash

>    from file`.

Reviewer: from file, then paste the following URL: http://nightly.odoo.com/master/iotbox/iotbox-latest.zip
